Fellowship X

6.25.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 31-32


NOTES:


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the tenth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is June 25, 2026 and current block height is: X

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. We're glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it valuable enough to share with others

If you're live with us, thanks for taking time tonight to be here



If you're interested in becoming a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or send us a message on nostr

To those unfamiliar, nostr is a social media protocol we use that isn't owned by a company, can't ban us and doesnt have an algorithm to hijack our attention


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church 6:24 is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship


In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. That verse is the inspiration for our ministry and remind us to obey God



In this fellowship we place radical emphasis on the absolute sovereignty of God, the authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do



This week we are continuing through sermon on the mount. Matthew chapter 5 verses 31 and 31 where Jesus speaks about divorce


To those new here, our weekly service involves 20-30 minutes of scripture which is recorded and posted a podcast, followed by a social discussion

Our social discussion topic for this evening is abouts keys to a lasting marriage



-------> OPENING PRAYER

God in heaven, creator and master of the universe

Thank you for the truth of your words that you have graciously offered us in scripture

I pray that your word and instruction would govern our lives and that we would submit to your plans for us, even when doing so is difficult

I pray for those listening to this podcast

I thank you for this opportunity to gather in fellowship

Lord, I pray that those here today and listening to this podcast would be brought closer to you and grow in their faith

In Jesus mighty name

Amen



-------> Scripture

If this is your first time listening to this podcast, thank you for being here.

We are currently moving through what is perhaps the most famous sermon perhaps ever given - sermon on the mount

It was given by Jesus in front of thousands of people who to came to listen to him speak

The account of this sermon is written in the gospel of Matthew. Matthew is one of the 4 gospels in the new testament of the bible

Matthew was an outcast jew who left his life as a tax collector for rome behind to become one of Jesus' 12 apostles

The 12 apostles were Jesus' closest students who spent time with him and served as eyewitnesses to Jesus' teachings and interactions over the course of his ministry

Matthews account spans 111 verses, around 2400 words and takes around 15 minutes to read end to end 


Up to this point in sermon on the mount, we've covered Kingdom character with the beatitudes in verses 2-12 

In the beatitudes, Jesus proclaims blessings on those who are poor in spirit (poor in spirit meaning those who acknowledge their need for God

Blessings to those who mourn our sinful world

Blessings to the meek who are gentle, patient and restrain their power

Blessings to those who hunger and thirst for righteousness

Blessings to those who are merciful and pure in heart

Blessings to the peacemakers and those who are persecuted for righteousness sake

And blessings to are those who are persecuted falsely on Jesus' account

To be blessed means to experience deep joy and to receive favour from God


After Kingdom character came Kingdom identity - Christians being the salt of the earth that preserves goodness and light the light of the earth that shine in the darkness of our earthly world

After identity comes kingdom rules with the law

The Jesus talks about Kingdom behaviours starting with anger and lust which we finishes with last week

That brings us to verse 31 where Jesus talks about divorce

Let's read verses 31 and 32 and then unpack marriage and divorce to dissect what Jesus is saying here

--> Read verses 31-32










PAM notes:
- the normalization of divorce may make the topic taboo to speak about
- Jesus doesn't leave any room for confusion in these words. He's very clear
- To understand what Jesus is saying here and perhaps more importantly, why he said it, we need to drop into context to the first century time in which Jesus spoke these words

- What was God's original intent for marriage? Genesis 2:18 - God said: man should not be alone, I will make for him a helper. The two shall become one flesh
- God created marriage as a sacred covenant. People read books, see therapists and read blogs about how to have good marriage. They should just read the words of the creator who initated marraiage as a thing. He institutes the first marriage
- The read the words spoken by his son Jesus about rules around divorce
- God has not changed his mind about marriage. Humans have veered away from Gods truth and original design for marriage
- One flesh. Permanent. Two merge into one. Two lives become so intricately intertwined that separation is not possible
- Marriage terminates with death
- Divorce was invented as a way out of honouring a promise
- People are getting divorced for frivolous issues. Jesus is not condemning legitimate divorce on the grounds of sexual immorality, he's clearing up the confusion and being very explicit about divorce
- Woman gains weight? divorce. Woman burns the bread of a meal? divorce. Things were rediculous
- 









