Fellowship VI

5.28.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 13-




-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the sixth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is May 28, 2026 and current block height is: X

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service held every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome

If you're live on this call, thanks for showing up


If youre listening to this podcast, we're glad you found it and hope you find it valuable enough to share with others

If you're interested in becoming a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or you can sending us a DM on nostr 


For those who have never heard of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol. The acronym stands for notes and other stuff transmitted by relays

Think of it like Instagram or X that isn't owned by a company, can't ban you, doesnt use an algorithm to hijack your attention and has built in bitcoin micropayments

If want help joining nostr, email BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com. I'm happy to help you create an account and send you your first sats (which are a small fraction of a bitcoin)


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church is an online ministry that exists to spread the word of God and to facilitate Christian fellowship


Jesus is our brand. The cross is our logo. Be The Church 6:24 is our ministry ID that people can use to find us in cyberspace

In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. This passage is the inspiration of our ministry ID and a reminder that we should Obey God, our only true master


As reformed Christians, the 5 Solas encompass the core theological convictions of reformed Christianity that distinguish it from other doctrines

Sola is a latin word that means alone or only


--> Scripture alone. The bible is the sole source of faith and holds authority over church tradition

--> Faith alone. Salvation is received by faith, apart from any human works

--> Grace alone. Salvation is a free gift from God, entirely offered by His grace rather than human effort

--> Christ alone. Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man, and salvation is found through only his work on the cross

--> Glory to God alone. All glory is due to God alone, salvation is accomplished solely through His will and action



Our website is BeTheChurch624.com

If you get value from this service and are not a fellow, you can support this ministry by sharing this podcast or going to our website to donate sats

As an update, my wife Natasha will be offering a weekly Women's bible study group on Tuesday fro 8-9pm ET starting next week on June 2.

If you're interested in joining or have questions, email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com



Last fellowship gathering we covered the beatitudes of Mathew chapter 5 verses 1-13

This week we continue through sermon on the mount. chapter 5 verses 13 and onward


Today's recorded session will go like this:
- 5 minute welcome
- Opening prayer 
- Scripture 20 minutes
- Christianity as a simple protocol for flourishing
- Wrap up with a closing prayer

Social from 8:40 - 9:20 with biblical parenting as the discussion topic


-------> OPENING PRAYER (2min)

Eternal God and wise father in heaven 

I pray for all my brothers and sisters in Christ and for all unbelievers 

I pray for help in hosting this fellowship gathering. I pray that you would help me communicate your word and I pray that those listening would receive insight from my words

I pray Lord that you would conquer hearts of men and that those suffering would feel a sense of ease in your comfort

In Christ’s name I pray

Amen




-------> Scripture (20min)

Before picking up where we left off, quick review of chapter 5 verses 1-12 that we covered last week

Jesus opens his sermon on the mount with the beatitudes

He lays out kingdom values and outlines the character of those whom God favours, or blesses


The Poor in Spirit: Those who rely on God 

Those Who Mourn: who will receive comfort for grieving sin

The Meek: Inheriting the earth through gentleness

Hunger for Righteousness: Seeking divine justice will be satisfied

The Merciful: Receiving mercy by showing mercy

Pure in Heart: Seeing God through spiritual purity

The Peacemakers: Being recognized as children of God

The Persecuted: Receiving the kingdom for staying faithful


Through the beatitudes, Jesus describes kingdom character. The character of those who are welcomed into and make up the holy kingdom

Let's continue readinh on through verses 13-16


---> Read verse 13

So the beatitudes described kingdom character and now Jesus seems to be describing Kingdom identity. He's assigning an identity. Hes describing the quality and traits of kingdom members

Jesus calls his disciples the salt of the earth

Let's take a minute to qualify that statement with the contextual relevance and meaning of salt

Today salt isn't that valuable. We can buy it anywhere, it's cheap and widely available. Its nice to have but not critical and because its so widely available, it quite cheap

However, In old times, salt wasn't just something we applied to our food to make it taste better. It might be today but if we look back in history, salt had a much greater significance and a deeper meaning

In the contextual time when these words we're reading were written, salt was one of the most important and reveered commodities on the planet

As valuable as money. So valuable that the term salary that we use today to denote payment for work done, is derived from the root sal, which is the latin word for salt

Salary comes from the word Salarium which was a monetary stipend paid to roman soldiers that would be used to purchase their salt rations

Sometimes soldiers were actually paid in salt instead of money. Their monthly allowance was their salarium. Salt was so valuable it was literally used to pay wages

Before we had modern refrigeration, salt was a critical mineral used to preserve meat and fish. It preserved meat from decay and rot

It was a valuble preservative. 



The term "being worth your salt" is a saying that is still used today that was used in old times to denote that a soldier considered valuable and competent was literally worth their salt 


In old times, food was bland and was used for seasoning like it is today. It made food taste better


Another use case of salt in the ancient world was a cultural practice known as a covenant of salt. It was used to consummate an agreement. Two parties would seal a binding agreement by eating salt together



Today, salt is easy to come by in our culture, and we don’t necessarily need it as a preservative because of refrigeration.

But to the people of Jesus’ day, salt was an important and precious commodity. 

So, when Jesus told His disciples that they were “the salt of the earth,” He meant that believers have value in this world and are to have a preserving influence

He's saying that his followers are the seasoning of the earth. Christianity makes things taste better in the earth


Primary use of salt in the first century was as a preservative to keep food from decaying and rotting

Before the days of refrigeration, salt was rubbed into meat in order to prevent it from rotting


Protection from decay. Decay meaning to break down, degrade, rot, shift into a worse state

Jesus is telling us that the world is decaying. Morals are decaying. Values are decaying. Goodness and honour are decaying. Righteousness is decaying

Jesus is saying that his followers are there to preserve goodness. To hold back decay. To preserve godly values and standards in a decaying world of sin


After saying his followers are the salt of the earth, Jesus qualifies the statement by saying that if salt loses it's taste, it becomes useless and would be thrown out and trampled under peoples feet

He's warning his disciples that just like salt that loses it's taste becomes utterly useless, disciples who fail to live fsithfully to Christ also become useless

Straying from God causes Christians to lose their value in the role of preserving goodness

In ancient times, salt could be mixed or diluted with other minerals which redered it worthless. So worthless that it was thrown out on the road because it served no purpose

Spiritually, this means that if believers compromise their faith by blending into the world, or failling to act righteously, they lose their distinct, positive influence

Christians are not meant to blend in with the surrounding culture. They aren't meant to be influenced and swayed by a sinful world

They aren't meant to accept gay pride because culture compels them to do so under the false guise of inclusion

They aren't meant to accept the lie of multiple genders because culture compels them to do so

In order to remain the salt of the earth, Christians must stay salty. They must remain pure to truth and unmixed with cultural norms if they are to remain a preservative of goodness and defend against decay

If we want to push back against moral decay, we must remain salty. We must not lose our flavour, for if we do, we become useless just like salt that has lost it's flavour


One last thought to share about salt is that it also provokes thirst. 

Eating something salty triggers thirst which leads us to drink in order to quench that thirst

Similarly, witnessing righteous behaviour can provoke those in darkness to thirst for God

A thirst for understanding how that person kept their calm despite being provoked or harmed

A thirst to understand how a parent lovingly disciplined their child at the park

Something to think about. Be salty and you might provoke others to seek a relationship with God in their lives


---> Read verse 14-16

In verse 13 Jesus compares his disciples to salt and now in verse 14 he's comparing them to light

Jesus Christ was a light in a dark world and his light shines through every person who belongs to him

Through his followers, the light of Christ is distributed throughout the darkness to all corners of the earth

Just like a city set on a hill is widely visible, the light of those who follow Christ must also be widely visible. It's meant to be seen through the darkness of the world

In order for the light to be discovered by those still in darkness, it must shine brightly 

Just like we wouldn't light a lamp and cover that lamp with a basket, as Christians we shouldn't dim or cover the light of Christ by reducing our visibility to the world


Before electricity, darkness would have been the norm. After sunset, lamps would be lit in houses to provide light and where a lamp was placed was critical

If you had a lamp in the corner of a room the light would not reach nearly as far as if you placed the lamp on a stand in an optimal location so the light flooded the room

The metaphor here is the followers of Christ are the lamps of the world. That light is meant to be seen, not covered up

The world needs Christian goodness to be visible and seen. Living in accordance with God's will is how disciples distribute Christ's light throughout the world

Failing to live according to God's will is like putting a basket over a lamp. It hinders the light and promotes darkness


Just like people would have looked up (literally) to a city set on a hill, the calling for Christians is to live counterculture lives in alignment with God so others in darkness can look up to us as righteous examples

Christians are called to take the high ground. To live righteously in a sinful world. To shine by taking the narrow path

By doing what's right even when we might be persecuted or punished for it

By seeing good works done by Christians, others can be invited to give glory to God who is ultimately reponsible for all good done by those serving him


A thought I had when reading "nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket" is that when in order to put out a candle, you cover it with something

By covering a candle you smother it and extinguish the light because you starve the flame of oxygen

I think that metaphor holds here. When you cover your light, you extinguish it and remove its ability to shine in the darkness

Don't smother your light. Dont hide your light. PLace it on a stand so it lights up everything around it

Another thing I heard on a podcast about light is that it doesn't exist to shine on itself, but on everything around it

It doesn't choose to shine on some things and not others

it washes over everything without discrimination

Similarly, living as a Christian affects everyone around you. Everyone who witnesses your behaviour

Not everyone will be receptive to the light. Not everyone will necessarily change by seeing your light, your goodness

But so long as we don't hide our light, it will be seen by the world and cannot be unseen by those who see it



One thing to remember is that while as Christians we are like lamps bearing light, Christ is the actual light

In John 8:12 Jesus says "I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life"



Summary

As Christians we are called to positively influence society by living distinct, loving, righteous lives that point others to God

We are called to have a preserving influence on the world jyst like salt has a preserving influence on food

To preserve goodness and resist the consistent forces of decay that in the absence of God would dominate

Salt is meant to be salty and becomes worthless if it loses that quality. Light is meant to be seen by those in the darkness. It has no value if covered up and hidden.




-------> Share/story

On a walk earlier this week I was thinking about how Christianity for me is a simple protocol for flourishing

Simple doesnt mean easy but simple means understandable and straightforward

I did a post on nostr that said:

It's a simple formula

Read the word of God

Obey God

Serve God

Flourish

I wrote this post because ive started to think of Christianity as an operating system for life

A protocol for living well by living in alignment with God's design and in service to forwarding his will


A users manual for humans to understand how do be in relationship to one another, what to eat, how to be mentally healthy, how to raise children, how to discern right and wrong

3 simple steps

read the word

Obey the father

Serve the father by serving others

Super simple yet profound in its consequences

Anyone have something to add to that or share before I say our closing prayer and we get into todays social discussion about biblical parenting?



-------> Closing prayer (2min)

Dear father in heaven

We're grateful for your blessings and we orient our lives towards furthering your kingdom here on earth

Father, we ask that you help us stay salty and live boldly as shining examples that can light up our dark world. We ask that you intensify our light

Lord we pray that this podcast reaches someone who's heart is ready to receive you and that words spoken today would bring many listeners closer to you

We pray for protection 

We pray for the wisdom to submit to your will and to trust the plan you have set for each of us

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our fifth fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

If you're here live, we hope that you join us for social which begins in 30 seconds

I will be back next week for our seventh fellowship service where we continue reading through chapter 5 unpacking the remainer of the sermon on the mount

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you





SOCIAL - Biblical parenting

I did a post on nostr this week 

that said the best playbook for raising children is in the word of God

Scripture teaches us how to raise children

We dont need to google parenting advice or buy parenting books, we just need to read the word

that was the inspiration for this weeks social topic of biblical parenting



Psalm 127: verse 3 says "Behold, children are a heritage from the Lord, the fruit of the womb a reward"

To me, that means that children are a precious, divine gift rather than a burden or accidental outcome

It reframes parenthood as a blessing entrusted to you by God and a legacy you are meant to steward

Heritage (Inheritance): Just like a valuable inheritance passed down through generations, children are a lasting legacy

Reward: The Bible likens children to a reward—a piece of evidence of God's favor and grace






-----
-----
-----


PAM Matthew 5:1-12 notes (youtube @1:06:00)

- 8 beatitudes
- Blessed: a limited word in the english language. Happy, thriving, extremely fortunate
- Hebrew, Greek, Aramaic
- In order to understand words, we must undertand context. Context is essential

Pray for discernment (the mental or spiritual ability to judge people, situations, or ideas clearly and intelligently). Sound judgement 

Those who live this way are fortunate/happy/thriving/fortunate

- If you are poor in spirit, you will thrive. Those who acknowledge their inner spiritual poverty and seek God. Those who say I need God. I want God
- Being poor in spirit means 
- Opposite of poor in spirit means you are self reliant and not in need of God



RAW notes


Salt and Light

- Similarly, Christians as the salt of the earth preserve Gods presence in order to prevent degradation into sin

- As salt preserves meat from rotting, believers in Jesus, distributed around the world, help to preserve humanity from falling into godlessness, immorality, chaos, and the resulting judgment.
- Salt permanently changes the flavor of food, just as the influence of godly people can change a culture.

- If salt is diluted or contaminated, it loses it's value and becomes worthless and to be disposed of

Jesus compares disciples to salt as a preservative and then compares them to light 

The light of Christ is meant to shine brightly so those in darkness can see it. It is meant to be discovered

salt has a positive, preserving influence on food and followers of Christ have a positive, preserving influence on humanity and culture

Light: visibility, truth and guidance



Christ came to fulfill the law

Anger

Lust

Divorce

Oaths

Retaliation







RAW NOTES

- Speak slower
- Less words, better words


- Disciple meaning? Connection with discipline?
- Beatitudes
- Salt & light
- Filfills the law
- Anger
- Lust
- Divorce
- Oaths
- Retaliation
- Love your enemies

- The wise save. The foolish consume everything. Quote scripture, emphasize the wisdom of saving for uncertainty. Car insurance. Home insurance. Bitcoin is financial insurance
- Communicating the gospel. Navigating common objections, obstacles that people have
- Misunderstanding -> curiosity -> study -> conviction -> advocacy (similar journey to Bitcoin continuum of belief)

Topic: communicating the gospel. Continuum of understanding, help people navigate in the right direction. Meet them where they are at. Be good at asking questions, assume misunderstanding

- WEAR BLUE BLOCKERS
- Tighten welcome. Less words
- Prayer, Scripture, Stewardship. Mention previous weeks behaviour and stewardship insights 
- Split bible study and insight with social. Discussions in social, different podcast show

