Fellowship IX

6.18.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 27-32



Notes:
- Say "and" less as a filler in the welcome


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the ninth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is June 18, 2026 and current block height is: X

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. We're glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it valuable enough to share with others

If you're live with us, thanks for taking time tonight to be here



If you're interested in becoming a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com 

You can also send us a message on NOSTR which is a social media protocol we use that isnt owned by a company, can't ban us and doesnt have an algorithm to hijack our attention


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church 6:24 is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship


In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. That verse is the inspiration for our ministry and remind us to obey God



In this fellowship we place radical emphasis on the absolute sovereignty of God, the authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do



As a reminder, my wife Natasha hosts a weekly Women's bible study group every Tuesday from 8-9pm ET. If you're interested in joining or have questions, email BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com



Last fellowship gathering we covered Chapter 5 verses 21-26

This week we continue through sermon on the mount. chapter 5 verses 27-32

Our weekly service begins with 20-30 minutes of scripture which is recorded and posted a podcast, followerd by a fellow social from 8:30 - 9:30

Our social discussion topic for this evening is: what does the bible say about money?



-------> OPENING PRAYER


Dear father in heaven, creator and master of the universe

Thank you for your grace and your word

We're grateful for this opportunity to gather in fellowship

I pray that the Holy Spirit would be present with us today, guiding us in this gathering and helping us gain wisdom from your words

I pray that your kingdom comes and your will is done on earth as it is in heaven

I pray that our friends and family who remain in darkness would be snatched into your kingdom and that we would be the salt and light that preserves and spreads the gospel far and wide

I pray that you would help me deliver this fellowship service today and that those participating would be blessed and rewarded for their faithfulness

In Jesus mighty name

Amen




-------> Scripture

For anyone new here, we are moving through what is perhaps the most famous sermon perhaps ever given

It's called sermon on the mount and it was delivered by Jesus

The book we are reading is Matthew. Matthew is one of 4 gospels in the new testament of the bible 

Matthew was an outcast jew and former tax collector that followed Jesus and became one of his 12 apostles

Up to this point in sermon on the mount, we've covered

Kingdom character with the beatitudes in verses 2-12 where Jesus proclaims blessings on those who are

Acknowledge their need for God (what he calls poor in spirit)

Blessings to those who mourn our sinful world

Blessings to the meek who are gentle, patient and who are powerful yet restrained

Blessings to those who hunger and thirst for righteousness

To those who are merciful and pure in heart

Blessings to the peacemakers and those who are persecuted for righteousness sake

And blessings to are those who are persecuted falsely on Jesus' account

To be blessed means to experience deep joy and to receive favour from God


After kingdom character came Kingdom identity - Christians being the salt and light of the earth

After identity comes kingdom rules with the law

Last week we began Kingdom behaviours starting with verses 21-26 where Jesus talks about anger

This week we continue with Kingdom behaviours. Jesus is talking about lust and divorce in verses 27 - 32

Let's start with unpacking lust

Lust is one of the 7 cardinal sins which are the major vices that humans are suceptible to

They include gluttony, pride, greed, sloth (laziness), envy, wrath and lust

While lust is often thought of as unrestrained sexual craving, The bible describes lust as a consuming, selfish desire that disregards God's will

We have natural desires. For example, the desire for intimacy in marriage, but lust is defined as the corruption of these natural desires which can lead to objectification, greed and the pursuit of what is forbidden

Objectification here refers to a disregard of the dignity and humanity of another person, viewing them simply as a tool for personal pleasure





--> Read verses 27 - 30


Once again, Jesus begins with "you have heard that it was said"



Jesus says "you have heard that it was said" 

You've been told this. Someone told you this

The But says something. You have heard that it was said....but. He's correcting the interpretation

He's not saying that what was said is wrong, he is clarifying with proper understanding of the intention of what was said

In a way, by saying "you have heard it was said...but", Jesus is saying that people have received bad teaching

You heard this but im telling you the truth. I'm going to clarify the misinterprations that have been offered to you by the scribes and pharisees





--> Read verses 


--> Read verses 



Summary: 

Jesus is once again raising the bar. he's setting a higher standard

People we told 

That's it for scripture this week

Reflection questions for listeners:
- ?

- Things to think about and a topic we're going to talk about in our social that begins shortly


-------> Closing prayer


Almighty father in heaven

We owe you everything

Thank you for blessing this fellowship gathering with your prescence

Father, we ask that you bless us with discerning minds, righteous action and a devotion to your word

Lord we pray that we would uphold your will and that we would spread the gospel to reach those who don't yet know you

We pray for enduring faith to trust your plan for us and to submit to your will

We pray that our friends and family would be snatched into the kingdom from their unbelief and would join us as disciples of your word

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our ninth fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

If you're here live, please stay on and join us for social which begins in 30 seconds. 

Today's discussion questions are 1) How do we deal with anger?, 2) How do we develop discernment?

I will be back next week for our ninth fellowship service where we continue reading through chapter 5 and studying the profound words of Jesus spoken during his sermon on the mount

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you




--
--

Let's start with Anger

Anyone have anything to share about anger? Struggles with it, insights, stories or strategies for self control when anger arises?

What makes us angry and how do we deal with it?


Discernment: The ability to perceive and judge people or situations clearly 

Combines insight with sound, wise judgement

How do we develop sound judgement? 

Discernment is of profound importance in Christianity. The ability to differentiate between positive/holy influences and negative/deceptive ones

Devotion to the word is the path to discernment. Seeking Godly counsel from the Holy Spirit

James 1:5: "If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you."

1 John 4:1: "Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world."

So discernment is learning to think God‘s thoughts after Him, practically and spiritually; it means having a sense of how things look in God‘s eyes and seeing them in some measure “uncovered and laid bare” (Heb. 4:13).


Again, discernment functions as a key to Christian freedom. The zealous but undiscerning Christian becomes enslaved—to others, to his own uneducated conscience, to an unbiblical pattern of life. 
Growth in discernment sets us free from such bondage, enabling us to distinguish practices that may be helpful in some circumstances from those that are mandated in all circumstances. 
But in another way, true discernment enables the free Christian to recognize that the exercise of freedom is not essential to the enjoyment of it.


Prayer: “I am your servant; give me discernment”
