Fellowship IV

4.30.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 4

Zoom: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/4371521405


PREP notes

- WEAR BLUE BLOCKERS
- Tighten welcome. Less words
- Prayer, Scripture, Stewardship. Mention previous weeks behaviour and stewardship insights 
- Split bible study and insight with social. Discussions in social, different podcast show


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to our fourth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is April 30, 2026 and current block height is: 947348

My name is Nick and I have the honour of leading this ministry and this weekly fellowship service held every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome

If you're here live, thanks for showing up


If youre listening to this recording, we're glad you found this podcast and hope you find it valuable and share it with others

If you want to become a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or by sending us a DM on nostr 


For those unaware of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol that isn't owned or controlled by a company and integrates bitcoin micro payments

If you're curious about nostr, email us and we're happy to hemp you get on it and send you your first sats (which are a small fraction of a bitcoin)

This global, online ministry exists to spread the word of God and to build a community of Christians who have a shared aspiration to live according to the standard of excellence set by Jesus

I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church. Be The Church 624 is a network of Christians seeking fellowship

Jesus is our brand. The cross is our logo. Be The Church 6:24 is our ministry ID that people can use to find us in cyberspace

In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. This passage is the inspiration of our ministry ID and a reminder that we should Obey God, our only true master


Our website is BeTheChurch624.com

It's a very simple and continues to be a work in progress. We welcome any/all feedback on the website experience so we can make it better and better

If you get value from this service and are not a fellow, you can help support this ministry by sharing this podcast or going to our website to donate sats

As an update, my wife Natasha will be offerings a weekly Women's bible study group starting in June

The Exact day and time each week is still TBD. If you're interested in joining or have questions, email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com



Last week we covered Mathew chapter 3

This week we continue with chapter 4

We want this fellowship service to be valuable and time well spen so they will be structured and the structure will evolve over time based on feeback from our fellows and listeners

We're updating our felloship structure this week. We're doing a 40 minute recording and then a 40 minute social directly afterward

Today's recorded session will go like this:
- 5 minute welcome
- Opening prayer 
- 20 minutes of scripture covering Matthew chapter 4
- 10 minutes discussing sin
- Closing prayer

We will then end the recording and and do a live social, discussing swearing and discernment with media consumption

From now on we will be doing our behaviour and stewardship discussions separate from the recorded session focused on scripture



-------> OPENING PRAYER (2min)

Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on us sinners

Lord we thank you for your grace and we pray for the fortitude to forgive those who have sinned against us

We ask that the Holy Spirit would cover this fellowship gathering to bless us with wisdom, guide our decisions and protect us from deception

I pray that those listening would receive insight and be inspired to deepens their study and relationship with you Lord

I pray that you would bring clarity to the confused and ease to those suffering

Lord we ask that you protect us from deception and evil and make us disciples of your will to establish your kingdom here on earth as it is in heaven

In the name of our Lord and saviour Jesus Christ

Amen

If you agree say amen



-------> Scripture (21min)

Before getting into Matthew chapter 4, let's do a quick recap of where we're coming from

In chapter 3 Matthew introduces John the Baptist. A man who is Jesus' cousin, living in the wilderness of Judea, calling for people to repent in preparation for the coming of the messiah, Jesus

The religious leaders of the time, Sadducees and Pharises, come to see John. John rebukes them and confronts them, telling them they must show genuine evidence of repentance rather than simply relying on their Abrahamic lineage

John compares his water baptism of repentance with the baptism of the incoming Jesus which will be with the Holy Spirit and fire

Jesus is baptized by John, the heavens open, the Holy Spirit descends upon Jesus like a dove and God declares "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased"

So chapter 3 signifies the transition from John's prepatatory ministry to the public ministry of Jesus

Let's get into chapter 4


--> READ verses 1-4


So after the Holy Spirit descends upon Jesus and God declares Him as His son, we now go into a time of testing for Jesus

The Holy Spirit leads Jesus into the wilderness where he fasts for 40 days and nights

The 40 is significant here because it echoes the 40 years that the Israelites spent wandering in the wilderness 

While God doesn't tempt people to sin, he does use circumstances in our lives to test and strengthen our faith

Here, God allows satan to tempt Jesus to sin 

Matthew saying Jesus was hungry reiterates that while Jesus, as the son of God, could have done away with hunger, he chose to fully experience the intense hunger and weakness that would have come from 40 days and nights of fasting

Jesus is tempted by satan himself in a state of intense hunger and struggle

Jesus is a warrior. He's not some soft character. He chose to engage with the earthly stuggles of man and endure this period of testing

Jesus didn't cheat by circumventing the temptations with his divine powers, he endured them as a human being

Satans first tempation tells Jesus to turn stones into loaves of bread. 

Satan knows Jesus is physically weak and hungry. 

Matthew calls Satan the tempter. Satans primary weapon against humans is temptation. That goes all the way back to the first tempation in the garden of Eden where satan as a serpent, tempted Eve to eat the forbidden fruit

This first tempation by satan is interesting because on the surface it seems fairly harmless

He says "if you are the son of God" which he is, then turn these stones into loaves of bread. Jesus could have easily done that and doing so doesn't really seem like a sin

By saying "IF you’re the son of God. He’s questioning Jesus’ identity. He’s baiting him. He even tried to selectively use scripture to entice Jesus to violate the will of God 


The insight I took from this is that when you are sure and secure in yourself, you don’t feel compelled to prove anything to others. 

When you're secure in your indentity as a servant of God, itsd much harder to be baited in trying to prove yourself to others


This is the evil brilliance of satan. Satan is tempting Jesus to put his own desires - the desire to eat because he's hungry, over the desire of God which was for Jesus to fast 

Satan is saying. You're the son of God, you should be able to do what you want, whenever you want, especially something as simple as eating food when you're hungry

Jesus understood that his fathers will was for him to endure and resist temptation. He knew that his purpose on earth was to do exactly as the father directed Him to do

Jesus responds to satan by quoting Deuteronomy 8 saying "man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God"

So satans first attempt to separate Jesus from God is to convince him to disobey the father by turning stones into bread to appease his hunger



I want to take a second to make an observation here

The enemy is cunning. He’s clever. He’s tactical.

He’s not going to tempt us when things are good. When there’s nothing bothering or worrying us

He’s not going to tempt us when things are going your way. That’s not tactical

He tempts you when we're struggling. When we’re desperate. 

That’s when we’re most likely to yield and give into temptation. 

I think it's improtant to be mindful of that. We have to have our guard up when things are hard. 

We should expect to be tempted when we’re struggling. Having awareness of that becomes a better defence system to recognize attacks and engage our defences


The devil doesn't tempt Jesus when he's with others and well fed

He tempts Jesus when he’s alone. When he’s hungry. When he’s fatigued and weak. The wilderness would have been hot. 

Not eating for 40 days would be a struggle. Not sure if anyone here has fasted. I’ve done a 5 day water fast and it was rough. I can only Imagine 40 days and how much of a struggle that would be

Also - notice Jesus said “it is written” he didn’t negotiate or entertain the provocation. He laid down his will


--> Read verse 5-7




Now satan wages his second attempt to tempt Jesus by taunting him saying - If you are the son of God, throw yourself off this ledge and God will command his angels to save you

Doing this would have instantly made it evident who Jesus was as the son of God

Satan even quotes scripture - Psalm 91: 11-12 that says angels wouldn't even allow Jesus to strike his foot on a stone - to try and convince Jesus to jump off the ledge and be saved by angels

Satan is tempting Jesus with an offer to bypass his suffering on the cross because a public miracle like this may have accelerated the process of Jesus claiming the throne of Isreal

Jesus again quotes Deuteronomy and rejects the second temptation from satan, saying "you shall not put the Lord your God to the test"



--> Read verse 8-11


Now satan attempts this third and final temptation by taking Jesus to a very high mountain and offering him rule over all of earth. Ultimate power in return for worship

The temptations are progressive. First he targets Jesus' physical apetite knowing hes hungry after 40 days of fasting

The he tempted Jesus to test God's word and avoid the cross by demonstrating a public miracle

Finally he tempted Jesus with immediate power by skipping the incoming suffering of his crucifixion

Again, Jesus quotes Deuteronomy and this time he tells satan to "be gone", at which point satan leaves him and angels arrive who begin ministering to him

Something to note: all of the temptations of satan involved timing and the choice to prioritize self over God's plan

The choice to eat instead of remain hungry

The choice to become king without waiting and suffering on the cross through a public miracle

The choice to obtain immediate power over all of earth instead of enduring suffering and allowing time to pass before he was acknowledged as king

Satan tempts us to choose selfish desires over God's plan, and by doing so, separating us from God


I want to take a second here before moving into verse 12 to talk about temptation

We will all get tempted. Unavoidable

Tempted to lie. To get drunk. To spend time with people of poor character. Tempted to lustful thoughts or actions



Being tempted isn't the sin, actin on the temptation is the sin

I think theres a lot of value in analyzing our temptations. 

Identify them. Accept the reality of them. Dissect them. The build defences against them. 

Pray to be protected from them. Lean on those you love to help you when the enemy targets you. 


I expect to be enticed and provoked and doing so makes me more vigilant

As Christians its important to build an impenetrable shield of self awareness and understanding of scripture to make ourselves a hard target. 

The devil is smart. Smart people don’t attack impenetrable fortresses. They attack weakness. 

They make attacks that they have a high potential of succeeding. Your fortress is made of scripture. Of awareness. Of facing small tests and identifying weak areas that need reinforcement. 

It’s made of others who stand with you to face off attacks. This is the fellowship piece. What this looks like in reality is calling a friend or fellow when you’re struggling and being tempted. 

This looks like calling on the Holy Spirit through prayer to give you strength when you’re tempted

Depend on God. He’s reliable. Build your fortress. Read the word. Cultivate fellowship and resilience through relationship 

In Ephesians 6 verse 11 Paul describes a spiritual toolkit that we can arm ourselves with to stand against the devils schemes

He calls it the whole armour of God

The belt of truth 

The breastplate of righteousness

The shield of faith 

The helmet of salvation

Sword of the spirit which is the word of God

Arm yourself do not negotiate with the devil.

Last thing to note is that temptations are one of many forms of attack

Anxiety is an attack. Depression is an attack. Resentment is an attack. Provocation is an attack. 

What's important is that we do not react. Do not take the bait. 

If we're preprared, we can lock into our fortress and saddle up our armor. 

Major point here is this: Be ready for battle everyday by consistently reading the word and keeping God close to your heart



--> Read verses 12-17

John is arrested and improsoned by Herod Antipas, one of the sons of Herod the great who attempted to kill Jesus when he was around 2 years old

Jesus hears of John's arrest and went to the norther region of Gallilee to avoid trouble

It seems fitting that when John, who would prepare the way for Jesus gets arrested and ends his ministry, Jesus' ministry officially begins

Jesus leaves Nazareth which is a town in central Galilee and goes to live in Capernaum, a fishing village on northern shore of Gallilee which served as the home base for Jesus' ministry in Galilee

Matthew then explains that Jesus' residence in Capernaum fulfills yet another prophesy about the jewish messiah found in old testament scripture

Matthew states this because he wants jews and gentiles to understand that Jesus is not simply a significant person, but the legitimate messiah that was written about in scripture

Jesus as the son of God, the Christ, is validated by the fulfilment of ancient prophesies

In Isaiah 9 verses 1-2, scriptures promised that a great light would emerge in the region once occupied by the tribes of Zebulun and Naphtali, neae the sea of Galilee

Isaiah said a light would shine in this dark area. Dark because of its proximity to gentiles and distance from Jerusalem

Matthew is saying that Jesus is that light

verse 17 says that Jesus now begins to preach with the same core message as John the Baptist which is a call to repent for the kingdom of heaven is near

John and Jesus both reinforce an important point: we cannot participate in God's kingdom without first repenting of our sins and changing course to follow Christ



--> Read verses 18-22

So Jesus passed the test and begins his ministry. The surmounting the devils temptations were admission requirement to confirm his character and begin his ministry

He's now in full ministry mode, preaching the word of God as the messiah


Matthew now begins to introduce Jesus' disciples

As I mentioned before, Capernaum was a fishing village on the northern shore of Galilee so it makes sense that Jesus recruits fishermen to follow him, starting with Simon (called Peter) and Andrew his brother

This wasn't the first time Jesus met Peter and Andrew

Andrew was a former disciple of John the Baptist. In John's gospel (different John from John the Baptist), he tells a story in Chapter 1 verses 35 - 42 of how when John the Baptist saw Jesus he exclaimed
"Behold, the lamb of God" and from that moment Andrew understood Jesus to be the Messiah and went to get Simon to meet Jesus

Jesus saw Simon and immediately changed his name to Cephas which translated means Peter

Jesus didn't call Andrew and Peter to follow him in that first encounter 

So Jesus sees Peter and Andrew casting a fishing net and says "Follow me and I will make you fishers of men" at which point they immediately leave their net and follow him

Knowing their prior encounter and that they both already knew Jesus to be the Messiah makes their obedience more understandable. Jesus wasn't just a random guy walking around to them

Fishing for men was Jesus' way of explaining their mission which would be to make disciples of men to follow Christ

It was common back then for teachers or rabbis to recruit students who would follow the teacher in their daily life

The students would be mentored by the teacher, learn from his words, his actions and how he made choices

After Peter and Andrew, Jesus sees another pair of brothers fishing - James and John who are fishing with their father Zebedee

James and John also leave their nets and father and follow Jesus

It's not stated but from what I read, it's highly likely that James and John were also aware of Jesus and knew he was the Messiah



--> Read verses 23-25



So now Matthew begins sharing details about Jesus' ministry

What he did. How he did it. Why he did it

Jesus was spreading the Gospel of the kingdom (gospel meaning good word), healing people

This early ministry would have been focused in Galilee which would have consisted of around 300,000 people within around 200 villages and towns

By healing diseases and afflictions, Jesus is giving people a glimpse of the kingdom of heaven where there is no disease or affliction

In hearing about Jesus, people seek his help. People who are sick, people in pain, people oppressed by demons, having seizures or even paralyzed

Back then these things were thought to be unsolvable health problems but Jesus was able and willing to heal them

By doing so, Jesus reveals compassion for humans and also his power as messiah

Understandably, word gets around about Jesus' miracles and he quickly becomes renowned

He stayed in Galilee but people came from vast distances from the surrounding areas to find him

People wanted to hear what Jesus was saying and witness his miracles

In chapter 5 Matthew then talks about the greatest sermon ever given - sermon on the mount - which we're unpacking in fellowship V

That's it for scripture this week

Now I'm going to talk about a very important but I think under-ephasized topic which is sin


-------> Sin (10 minutes)

In order to really understand the value of being saved, I think it's important to know the problem that we're being saved from which is the innate tendency to sin that we all inherited from Adam

My simple definition of sin is to disobey God. To rebel against God. 

God set a target for us in how we are to think, act and behave. To sin is to miss the target. To miss the mark. To fall short of the standard set for us by God and demonstrated by Jesus

To sin is to separate ourselves from God by disobeying him


We all have an inherent sinful nature and we all sin

Those sins require forgiveness through God's grace and redemption through Jesus Christ who suffered for us to pay the debt owed from the sins we have comitted

Having faith in Jesus and following him gives us salvation from sin


In order to avoiding sin and repent when we have sinned, we need an awareness of the different forms that sin can take

Foundarionally, discernment begins with understanding which comes from reading the word

The 7 cardinal sins are pride, greed, lust, envy, gluttony, wrath, and sloth

Pride: The original and most serious sin, is an excessive belief in one's own abilities or importance, often putting self before others. The opposite of pride is humility
Greed: An insatiable desire for material wealth, possessions, or gain. The opposite of greed is generosity
Lust: Intense,  sexual desire or obsession with worldly pleasure. Opposite of lust is chastity or self control
Envy: The desire for others' traits, status, abilities, or possessions. Opposite of envy is gratitude
Gluttony: Overindulgence or excessive consumption, particularly of food or drink. Opposite of gluttony is temperance or moderation
Wrath: Uncontrollable anger, rage, and hatred. Opposite of wrath is patience 
Sloth: Laziness, apathy, or failure to utilize one's gifts and spiritual responsibilities. Opposite of sloth is dilligence

Tash and I had a discussion with friends several months ago and we defined the 7 sins which was a super helpful awareness exercise for me

Helped me identify sins in my own actions and behaviours

Question for those listening: is there one of these cardinal sins that is especially strong with you?


Our new format is to bring behaviour and stewardship discussions to the fellows social which happens right after this recording

If you're here live, just stay in the meeting

If you're keen to join as a fellow, email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com

Now for closing prayer and official closing of the podcast recording


-------> CLOSING PRAYER (1min)

Spirit of the living God. Author of the book we study and the word we submit to

We pray that we would be worthy disciples and contributors to your will being done on earth as it is in heaven

Thank you for blessing us with health, wisdom and discerning minds

May our friends and family who are not yet followers of Christ become curious and pursue righteous lives

May you place holy, just men to lead nations so the world may know peace

We pray for unrelenting faith that allows us to avoid fear and trust your plan

In Jesus's mighty name

Amen



-------> CLOSING

That ends the recorded portion of our third fellowship gathering at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

If you want to become a fellow and join us in discussion and social, or have questions, please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com

I'm traveling for work for the next 2 weeks and won't be able to record fellowship for the next two weeks but I'll be back on May 21st to host fellowship service V to unpack sermon on the mount

I'f you're here Live, stay on and we can get into todays social discussion about swearing and discernment with media consumption

God bless you



Social

-------> Swearing

The bible is super clear about swearing

In Ephesians 4:29 Paul says "let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, thsat it may give grace to those who hear"

Paul is saying that we must have control over the words coming out of our mouths

Words have a powerful influence on others so we should be thoughtful and discering with the language we use

In Ephesians 5 verse 4, Paul then says: "let there be no filthiness nor foolish talk nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving

Paul is telling us to avoid saying meaningless or absurd things. Includes trash talk, gossip, speaking in ignorance or speaking without self control

Basically, hes saying don't be vulgar or hurtful with your words



In Matthew 5:22, Jesus says "whoever says "you fool" will be liable to the hell of fire

Calling someone a fool is an insult so Jesus is saying with strong words not to insult people


I can say from experience that once we stopped swearing in our home, it become much more obvious to me just how common and normalized swearing is among people I know



-------> Discernment with media consumption

Just like consuming some foods will make us physically sick

consuming certain types of media can make us mentally and spiritually sick. Can separate us from God








