Fellowship VII

6.4.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 17-20




-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the seventh fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is June 4, 2026 and current block height is: 952,408

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. We're glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it valuable enough to share with others

If you're live with us, thanks for taking time tonight to be here



If you're interested in becoming a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com 

You can also send us a message on NOSTR which is a social media protocol that isnt owned by a company, can't ban you and doesnt have an algorithm to hijack your attention


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship


In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. Those words are the inspiration of our ministry and a reminder to obey God



In this fellowship we place radical emphasis on the absolute sovereignty of God, the authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do



As a reminder, my wife Natasha hosts a weekly Women's bible study group every Tuesday from 8-9pm ET. If you're interested in joining or have questions, email BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com



Last fellowship gathering we covered salt and light, Matthew Chapter 5 verses 13 - 16

This week we continue through sermon on the mount. chapter 5 verses 17 - 20


Social from 8:40 - 9:20. Our social discussion topic today is what is freedom?


-------> OPENING PRAYER (2min)


Eternal God and ever wise father in heaven

Thank you for this opportunity to gather in fellowship

I pray that members of this fellowship would be devoted to your word

Lord I pray that our friends and family who don't yet believe would become hungry to know you and develop a relationship with you

Lord I pray for focus, wisdom and for peace to wash over this world

I pray that someone listening to this podcast would be changed and brought closer to you

In Jesus mighty name, 

Amen



-------> Scripture

Before picking up from where we left off last week, let's do a quick review of chapter 5 verses 13-16 that we covered last week

We are in Chapter 5 of a book called Matthew. Matthew was an outcast jew and former tax collector who followed Jesus and became one of his 12 apostles


We are working through what is perhaps the most famous sermon ever given, called sermon on the mount, given by Jesus

Jesus begins the sermon with the beatitudes which outline Kingdom character. We covered these in fellowship V

Chapter 5 verses 1-12

Blessed are the poor in spirit

Blessed are those who mourn

Blessed are the meek

Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness

Bless are the merciful and pure in heart

Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness sake or have evil waged on them on Jesus' account

The beatitudes describe the character of those who flourish in Gods eyes. They describe kingdom character


Last week we covered Kingdom identity in verses 13-16 where Jesus calls his disciples salt and light

The salt that preserves goodness and defends against decay and the light that shines so those in darkness can see it and approach it

Now, in verses 17-20, Jesus is anchoring his people in Gods word. I'll read those verses now and then I can expand on them line by line


---> Read chapter 5 verses 17-20


Let's define some terms and build context so we can understand these words in the correct frame


--> Term 1 :The Law and Prophets

This term refers to the old testament. The word of God

During the time of Jesus, there was no new testament, only the old testament

The law is the first 5 books of the bible, attributed to Moses, followed by the prophetic books from Joshua to Malachi 


--> Term 2: fulfill 

In verse 17 Jesus says "Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the phrophets, i have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them", he's saying that he has come to satisfy it. 

Fulfill means to bring to completion, satisfy a requirement or to achieve a goal

When Jesus says he has come to fulfill the Old testament, the laws and prophets, he's saying that he has come to embody it. To affirm it. To validate it

Remember, there is no new testament in the time of Jesus. There is only the old testament. 

If you read the OT after reading the NT, you see Jesus everywhere. The entire OT is a prophecy about the arrival of Jesus Christ

Jesus is the fulfilment of the moral law. A man who did not sin. A man who lived fully in alignment with his fathers words

Jesus accomplished what the law demanded and fulfilled what the prophets predicted in the OT scripture


-->Term 3: Iota

An iota is the ninth letter of the Greek alphabet

Because it is both the smallest letter in the Greek alphabet and a single pen stroke, the term is commonly used in English to describe an extremely small, almost invisible, or scarcely detectable amount

In verse 18 Jesus says: "For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished"

Jesus is saying that the law isn't going anywhere. Every pen stroke is important. Every dot is significant and relevant 

Jesus is saying that every chapter, verse, letter and even iota was intentionally put there by God, It’s all important 


He's saying that every letter in every word of the law remains in effect until he accomplishes everything in it 

He accomplished everything by perfectly obeying every single requirement of the law and fulfilling every OT prophecy about the coming messiah



Verse 19

"Therefore whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, 

but whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven."

Jesus tells us not to ignore the commands of the law and prophets either in our daily choices or in our teaching

Anyone who relaxes the commandments in the law will be called least in heavens kingdom

Anyone who upholds the commands and teaches them accurately will be called great in heavens kingdom

Notice that Jesus doesn't say that we must uphold the commandments in order to enter heaven

Those who do and those who don't obey the law are in heaven. Their status in the kingdom is determined by their obeyance of the law

Salvation is by faith, not by good behaviour


For context, The religious elite of the time have perverted and twisted the word of God. They have manipulated scripture and are teaching bad doctrine. 


The truth of God word is eternal. It outlines everything. It’s our heavenly father’s love letter to his children.

Written by God through 40 men on 3 different continents, 3 different languages over 1500 years. A unity of cohesive thought is not by chance. It’s not random. It’s divine truth by God through messengers that are men

Bad doctrine is only possible because people aren’t reading Gods word. Aren’t reading the source material

In this verse Jesus is saying that if you tone down the word you will be called least in the Kingdom.

If anyone waters down the laws. Dilutes them for fear of hurting feelings. For fear of judgement. In order to blend with culture. They will be called least in the Kingdom

Those who tell the truth. Who uphold the fidelity of the word. Every iota. Straight truth. Will be called great in the kingdom of heaven

Don’t relax the word. Don’t dilute it. Don’t be pressured by worldly opinions. Be true Christians. Be true to the word

Know it. Share it. Call others to know it and abide by it




Verse 20 

"For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven."

The scribes and Pharisees were the religious elite of the day

People looked up to them. They were righteousness role models. They were relaxing and perverting Gods laws

They were creating their own laws and calling them Gods laws. Man made traditions and laws being labelled Gods laws. 

Jesus is telling his followers to be more righteous than the religious hypocrites of the day who try to appear righteous but have corrupted hearts


The antidote to Bad teachings and bad doctrines is people reading the word. Don’t outsource knowledge of Gods word to others. Accept the responsibility to know the word by studying it. 




To summarize chater 5 verses 17-20

After sharing kingdom character and kingdom identity, Jesus now shares kingdom laws and sets the record straight on the manipulation and perversion of God's laws that were happening at the time

Jesus doesnt throw away any of Gods commandments. He's trying to help us understand the law and prohphets as they are meant to be understood

Jesus is telling us to know the word, submit to the word and live according to it. Don't miss an iota. 

Those who uphold God's law will be great in heaven

Those who do not uphold it will be least in the kingdom

We should not be lenient in obeying the commands of the laws

We should aspire to be more righteous than men creating laws and deceitfully claiming they are God's law



Something I remind myself of regularly is that God's law carries supremacy over man's laws

In order to uphold God's law and live within the confines of God's law, we must read and understand the words that God relayed through men to convey the law

The word of God is the bedrock that sets the laws that govern how we are to interact with God and with one another



Reflection questions for listeners:

- How well do you know God's word and therefore his laws?
- Where are you being lenient in obeying God's laws?




-------> Closing prayer (2min)


Almighty father in heaven

We owe you everything

We give you thanks for blessing this fellowship gathering with your prescence and guidance

Father, we ask that you bless us with discerning minds, righteous action and a devotion to your word

Lord we pray that we would uphold your laws with precision and that we would spread the gospel to reach those who don't yet know you

We pray for protection from temptation

We pray for enduring faith to trust your plan for us and to submit to your will

We pray that our friends and family would be snatched into the kingdom from their unbelief and would join us as disciples of your word

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our seventh fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

If you're here live, we hope that you stay on and join us for social which begins in 30 seconds. Todays discussion question is "what is freedom?"

I will be back next week for our eigth fellowship service where we continue reading through chapter 5 and studying the profound words of Jesus spoken during his sermon on the mount

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you


--
--



SOCIAL - Freedom

The Law is God's word. Jesus was the fulfillment of the law. He was the only sinless man who obeyed the law

His work on the cross removed the burden and debt of our sins 

Used to think religion was restrictive of freedom

Now I understand the word of God to be foundational laws that enable ultimate freedom. Freedom from sin and freedom from the repayment of sin debts that many of us have stacked up over a lifetime







