Fellowship XIII

7.23.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 6: 1-15


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the 13th fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is July 23, 2026 and current block height is: 959,326

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service on Thursdays at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. I'm glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it to be a valuable use of your time and maybe worth sharing with others


If you want to attend live or get in touch with me you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or send me a message on nostr

For those who have never heard of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol that isn't owned by a company and doesnt have an algorithm that hijacks our attention


As a disclaimer, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church 6:24 is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship

We study Gods word and gather in fellowship to live as witness to one another in our quest to live as followers of Christ


6:24 is a verse from Matthew where Jesus says we cannot serve two masters and that verse is a reminder to obey God


We place emphasis on the sovereignty of God, authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do


This week we are continuing through sermon on the mount covering Matthew chapter 6


Every service starts with 20-30 minutes of scripture which is recorded and posted as a podcast

When people attend live, we do a social discussion after scripture for up to an hour

Let's begin with an opening prayer



-------> OPENING PRAYER

Ever wise and eternal father in heaven

Thank you for blessing us with your presence today and for this opportunity to gather and study your word

Lord we pray that your presence in this world would grow and that you would conquer many hearts and minds here on earth

Father we pray for the perseverance and discipline to live according to your word and we're grasteful for your grace anf forgiveness when we fall short

I pray that those listening to this podcast would be brought closer to you and that they would be rewarded for their faith

In Jesus mighty name

Amen


-------> Scripture

Let's get into scripture

We're continuing our slow walk through sermon on the mount, according to the gospel of Matthew

Sermon on the mount was Jesus' longest continual teaching and is perhaps the most famous sermon ever given

It spans chapter 5-7 in the gospel of Matthew. Last week we finished Matthew chapter 5 and we're now starting chapter 6

Todsy we're covering verses 1-15 where Jesus talks about giving to the needy and also teaches us a very clear model and template for prayer with the Lords prayer

In fellowship II in April, we covered prayer as a core Christian behaviour and I used covered 6 verses 5-15 to unpack the prayer template that Jesus gave us

Today we're going to revisit that template and talk about it again

While prayer will mean different things to different people and we will all pray in our own way, Jesus delivers a very clear instruction here in Sermon on the mount about how to pray

Let's read the word


--> Matthew chapter 6 verses 1-4

So far in sermon on the mount, Jesus has emphasized that righteousness includes a persons heart (their thoughts and attitudes) just as much as their outward behaviours

Our inner disposition is more important than our outward disposition

Jesus is emphasizing that what matters to him most is our heart more than our deeds

He's telling us to beware of trying to appear righteous to others. If others see our good deeds, we've received our rewards and will get no bonus points from the father 

We shouldn't yell from the rooftops or brag to others when we give to the needy. We shouldnt sound a trumpet

The point of giving is to glorify God the father, not to glorify us as the givers

If we seek praise and recognition for our giving, we are not doing it from our heart but to receive a reward. If we receive that reward from others, we get no reward from The Father

God will notice and reward those who give in humility and sincerity. He won't notice those who give boastfully and out of desire to receive recognition for their giving


Giving: money, attention, love. Money is a representation of our time but the most scarce and precious thing we can give is our time and attention to those who need it

Opening the door for someone is a form of giving

Letting someone in while driving is a form of giving

Offering money to those who need it is a form of giving




God rewards righteous behaviours done from the heart to glorify his goodness. He doesn't reward behaviiours done to gain the praise and admiration of others even if they seem righteous on the surface 

Those who give to receive praise will receive temporary recognition which is meaningless. Thats their reward

Those who give to glorify God will receive eternal favour and recognition from the father. A much better reward in my opinion

Don't let worldly praise motivation our actions

Doing the right thing for the wrong reason is not righteous, it's egotism

Give to help others, not for praise or recognition from others 

Phillip Anthony Mitchell said it perfectly: Don't give to be seen, Just be seen being generous

Our motives tell us a out our heart. Its not about our behaviours, its about our motives. God cares about our motives which are a deeper layer than just the behaviours we do


Now lets move on to verses 5-15 which is arguably the most important teaching on prayer written anywhere in scripture

--> Matthew chapter 6 verses 5-15

Do not be like the hippocrites

The hippocrites pray to be seen praying by others

If someone is praying to be seen by others, they will not be seen by good

Their praise from others for praying is their reward

Jesus says and WHEN you pray. Not IF you pray. Jesus is assuming that his followers will be praying

Mandatory behaviour

When assumes that one must have a prayer life. Jesus expects us to have a lifestyle that includes prayer. He wants to be hearing your voice regularly

Being prayerless we become distant from God

Prayer is communication to God. Lack of communication to God is a vulnerability to communication by the devil

We're either voluntarily speaking with God or we will be involuntarily spoken to and influenced by the devil

Prayer is protection

Don't be unprotected and vulnerable

Be locked into the shield of Gods protection which is present through prayer 

Sounds like the same lesson we just covered. Don't give to be seen giving, just be seen giving

Don't pray to be seen praying. In fact, when you pray, do it in secret. Speak to our heavenly father in secret and he will reward you

People hearing you pray is a reward

God hearing you pray is a reward

You can only have one

We shouldn't pray to impress people. We shouldn't even pray to impress God

Pray to speak with God, thank him, and to ask him for things we need

When you pray. Again, not IF you pray, but WHEN you pray

The words of Jesus tell me that most of my prayers should be said alone. That I should have a regular place where I speak with God. 

Undistracted by the world. Away from noise. In quiet, in secret, with focus

Jesus prayed alone in nature. We should regularly speak to God through prayer, in secret, by ourselves, regularly

Those are some clear instructions

Another Phillip Anthony Mitchell gem: the real secret to prayer is just praying in secret


verse 7 - don't annoy God with empty language. Don't say long elaborate prayers with many words but devoid of meaning. Say short, meaningful, authentic prayers

verse 9 - Pray Like This. Pray like this. There is no ambiguity or wiggle room here. This is clear, explicit instruction

I knew this prayer and could recite it but I never said the prayer to God. I never authentically spoke those words sincerely from my heart 

Jesus said Pray LIKE this. Not PRAY THIS

This is a model for prayer, this is not the exact formula to be recited. This is a template. A model. A sequence of words for effective prayer

These are the elements of a correct prayer

An invocation and 6 petitions

Elements, not exact words

Invoke God (our father in heaven)

1. Gorify him, thank him (hallowed be your name)
2. Pray for the advancement of God's kingdom on earth (your kingdom come)
3. Pray that we would honour Gods will by obeying him (your will be done)
4. Ask for daily physical needs to be met (give us this day our daily bread)
5. Pray for forgiveness of our sins and the wisdom to forgive others 
6. Pray for protection from evil

Invocation + 6 petitions


Verse 14 + 15

If you forgive others, so too you will be forgiven by God

If you don't forgive others for their sins, you will not be forgiven for yours



Reflection questions:
- Are you giving to be seen by others?
- How much are you praying? 
- Where are you praying (in secret?)
- How are you praying? 
- Do your prayers include the core elements of effective prayer outlined by Jesus?


That's it for scripture this week

Let's close with a prayer



-------> Closing prayer

Our father in heaven

Thank you for your grace

I pray for the advancement of your kingdom and that we would submit to your will

I pray that you would meet the daily needs of those listening to this podcast

I pray for the forgiveness of our sins and that we would forgive others who sin against us

I pray that you would shield us and those we love from evil and temptation

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our 13th fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

I will be back next week for our 14th fellowship service where we continue reading through sermon on the mount. Next week we study what Jesus says about fasting

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you



--
--
