Fellowship III

4.23.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 3

Zoom: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/4371521405

-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to our third fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is April 23, 2026 and current block height is: X

My name is Nick and I have the honour of leading this ministry and this weekly fellowship service held every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. We're glad you found this podcast and hope you find it valuable

If you want to become a fellow at BTC624, please email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or by sending us a DM on nostr 

For those unaware of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol that isn't owned or controlled by a company and integrates bitcoin micro payments

If you're curious about nostr, email us and we're happy to hemp you get on it and send you your first sats (which are a small fraction of a bitcoin)

My wife and I created this ministry to connect with fellow Christians who are also seeking to Become True Christians by aspiring toward the standard of excellence set for us by Jesus

To be clear, I am not a pastor and this is not a Church. Be The Church 624 is a global network of Christians seeking fellowship with other Christians striving to live biblically

As a reminder to us all, I'm going to hardcode a mention of the 5 solas into this welcome section of fellowship

These phrases encompass the core theological convictions of reformed Christianity that distinguish it from other doctrines

--> Sola Scriptura meaning scripture alone. The bible is the sole source of faith and holds authority over church tradition

--> Sola Fide meaning faith alone. Salvation is received by faith, apart from any human works

--> Sola Gratia meaning Grace alone. Salvation is a free gift from God, entirely offered by His grace rather than human effort

--> Sola Christus meaning Christ alone. Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man, and salvation is found through only his work on the cross

--> Sola Deo Gloria meaning Glpry to God alone. All glory is due to God alone, salvation is accomplished solely through His will and action


Our website is officially live at BeTheChurch624.com. Still making final tweaks to refine the formatting

If you get value from this service and are not a fellow, you can help support our ministry by sharing this podcast or going to our website to donate sats

Last week we covered Mathew chapter 2

This week we continue with chapter 3

We want this fellowship service to be valuable and time well spen so they will be structured and the structure will evolve over time based on feeback from our fellows and listeners

Todays session will go like this:
- 5 minute welcome
- 2 minute opening prayer by my wife, Natasha
- 20 minutes of scripture covering Matthew chapter 3
- 10 minute behaviour discussion about fellowship
- 10 minute stewardship discussion about money, specifically the properties that distinguish good vs bad money
- 10 minute open discussion (optional)
- 2min closing prayer by Natasha

Eventually there will be a 30 minute social for Be The Church fellows after the service




-------> OPENING PRAYER (2min)

Tash


-------> Scripture

Before getting into Matthew chapter 3, let's do a quick recap of key events in chapter 2:

When Jesus was around 2 years old, wise men (Maji) followed a star to bethlehem to worship the young child and bring gifts

Joseph is warned by an angel in a dream to fleewith jesus and Mary to egypt to escape King herod who wants to kill the child

Herod kills all male children of 2 years or less in Bethlehem, hoping to kill Jesus

After Herod dies, an angel tells Joseph to return. Fearing Herods son Archelaus, the family returns to Galilee and settles in Nazareth 


As we move from Chapter 2 to 3 theres a huge jump forward in time

Matthew doesn't report anything in the life of Jesus between when Joseph settled in Nazareth to the current time where Jesus encounters John the baptist where 25-30 years have passed (not the same John who wrote the gospel of John)

John is actually the cousin of Jesus, only around 6 months apart in age

In his gospel, Luke tells the story of how John was a miracle child, born to Zecheriah and Elizabeth who were thought to be too old to have children and both descendants of the priestly line of Levites

Luke also spoke of the important role John would play in preparing the way for Jesus

Luke says that before John was born, an angel told his father about the man John would become

The angel said that John would turn many of the children of Israel to God and to make ready for the Lord a people prepared


Lets read the word starting with verse 1-6

--> verse 1-6

So Matthew introduces John as a preacher in the wilderness of Judea which was a dry, rough land near the dead sea

So John wasn't in a heavily populated or high traffic area. His location meant that people who wanted to listen had to come to him

John was known as the baptist or baptizer because baptizing people was a sign of their repentance from sin and that was a foundational element of John's ministry

John's first words are "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand"

The word "repent" is Metanoeite in Greek which means "to change one's mind and heart"

More literally, it means to change direction, to stop going the wrong way and to start going in the right way. 

So repent isn't just the feeling of being sorry for one's sins, conveys an active change. 

By asking people to repent, John was calling the people of Israel to confess their sins and submit to God

Jewish people at that time would have been aware of a new kingdom that would one day come via the promised messiah

By saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand, John is expressing that the kingdom isn't a distant thing, but that its as close as your hand

John proclaims Jesus as the messiah and therefore the kingdom is iminent, not distant

He's saying with urgency that repentance for sin is needed for people to be included in the kingdom and that mere inclusion in Jewish heritage isn't sufficient

In verse 3 Matthew connects John to the prophecy in Isaiah 40:3 which says "A voice cries: In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God"

With this reference, Matthew is showing that this verse in Iasaiah relates to John the Baptist preparing the way for Jesus

John's role was to "clear the path" for Jesus by calling people to repent for their sins and turn back to the way of God. if people did that, they would be ready to follow God's son

In verse 4 Matthew talks about John wearing a garment of camel hair, a leather belt and eating locusts and wild honey. This would have been typical clothing of wild nomads

Even though John was of priestly lineage, he chose a simple life in the wilderness, wearing clothes and eating food that normal, poorer people would be wearing and eating. 

In verse 5 emphasizes that despite him being in the wilderness people travelled from Jerusalem and all around Judea to come witness John, hear his words and be baptized by him

Verse 5 repeats the word all twice. Says all Judea and all the region about the Jordan. Repeated to emphasize that many people were coming to see John, not just a few

John's message was simple and potent

The kingdom of heaven is near. The Messiah is coming. Confess and repent of your sins. Demonstrate your commitment to leading a holy life by being baptized

John's baptism was one of clensing and declaring agreement with God. It was a public declaration of a renewed commitment to live as God commanded

John's baptism of repentance which is different than the symbolism of modern day Christian baptism which in part symbolizes ones death and resurrection with Christ


--> verse 7-8






The core of John's message is repentance

Repentance is not just feeling sorry for our sins, it's more than that

Less about feelings, more about action. Repentance is the act of changing our mind, not just feeling sorry for sins comitted

Repentance is a change of direction. A change in how we act. The essence of repentance is a return to God. A reconciliation in our relationship with the Father

Repent is the first word we hear from John

Repent is also the first word spoken by Jesus once his ministry begins

In Matthew 4:17 Jesus repeats John's words saying "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand"

So John urgently wanted people to know that the kingdom of heaven is near. At hand means as close as your hand

Then kingdom of heaven wasn't some distant thing. It was close. This was an expression of urgency to repent as judgement is fast approaching and very close

John is saying that the messiah is coming, his kingdom is as close as your hand and everyone must repent and make right with God

In verse 3 Matthew mentions the passage from Isaiah 40:3 to identify John the baptist as the prophesied forerunner to the messiah

John's role was to prepare the way for the Lord. To prepare peoples hearts and bring awareness to sin and the importance of repentance

Everything great begins with preparation. John had an important role to play in preparing people for the incoming greatness of Christ

To prime people for the arrival of the messiah and to forewarn them of the impending judgement 

In verse 5 




Summary of chapter 3: 

Matthew introduces a unique character of the new testament: John the baptist

John was related to Jesus. He was Jesus' cousin, born only around 6 months apart

He was a miracle child born to Zacharias and Elizabeth, a couple that was thought to be too old to have children

John is introduced as a man preaching in the Judean wilderness, clothed in camel hair and eating honey and locusts. His purpose is to prepare the way for Jesus

John is telling people to repent for the kingdom of heaven is near. Meaning, Christ is coming and judgement is at hand. as close as our hand

John rebukes the Jewish leaders of the day for coming to be baptized without authentic repentance. He warns that those not producing good fruit will be cut down and thrown into fire

He talks about his baptism of reptenace and the incoming baptism by Jesus with either the Holy Spirit or fire

Jesus then visits John and is baptized which signifies the commmencement of his ministry

During Jesus' baptism, he receives a divine endorsement from God himself. 


- John the baptist
- Baptism of Jesus
- Baptism: why? what? symbolism
- Pharies and Sudducees
- Repent: to change one's mind
- Kingdom of heaven: unpack
- Winnowing fork
- Baptism of Jesus is symbolic to identify with sinful people




Matthew chapter 3:
- Repent: meaning. Change one's mind
- Pharises
- Sudducees
- Baptized by Holy Spirit
- Winnowing fork: separation of wheat from chaff, burning the chaff
- Baptism of Jesus: symbolism of baptism. Jesus did it to indentify with sinful people




-------> Behaviour: Fellowship.

Ive been asking Christians for their thoughts about the 3 most important Christian behaviours

Time with God through prayer, time reading the bible to understand the word and fellowship all some up as the big 3

Weve covered the first two already so today we're talking about fellowship

Seems fitting considering this is a fellowship service

Specifically, 3 questions I want to answer:

1. Why is fellowship important?
2. How do we achieve fellowship?
3. What is fellowship?


Start with the idea of vertical fellowship and horizontal fellowship

Vertical fellowship is with God

Horizontal fellowship is with fellow Christians and also with non Christians

The only thing we can bring to heaven is other people. Heard this and it hit me hard

Fellowship with Christians allows us to support and be supported by other believers in our quest for living Biblically. Not an easy endeavour in a sinful world

Fellowship with non Christians is our outlet to spread the gospel and help others come to Jesus and live righteously


Fellowship is deeper than just social interaction

It's a deep spiritual partnership consisting of sharing and joint participation

Sharing meals. Sharing time. Sharing resources. Sharing life stories. Sharing struggles

Sharing in life means involving others in our lived experience and being part of the experience of others. Being present and available to serve when needed

This fellowship service offers spiritual accountability. Becoming a fellow means comitting to being here every week for an hour and building meaningful connections with other fellows

The Greek word for fellowship is Koinonia meaning communion, joint participation, partnership and intimacy

Shared life is a bond that unites Christians with one another and with Jesus Christ

Felowship isn't passive. It's active. It involves doing things together actively to forward the kingdom

Prayer and encouragement

Participation within a community

Our hope is that while we all have a home church where we worship, a digital fellowship can endure and become a source of community even when we move physical locations and find a different church

Enduring fellowship

Christian fellowship offers us connection and relationship between Christians that cannot be had with non Christians. 

Come together in fellowship to teach each other things. Teach things about health, money, communicating the gospel, ways of living etc

Fellowship is a means of perseverance to maintain faith until then end. Fellowship offers social support to grow our faith and expand our capacity to communicate and spread the gospel

A weekly bible study practice to deepen our understanding of scripture

Experiencing life together and building each other up



-------> Stewardship: Properties of money

Last week we talked about food. Eat what God provides with thanksgiving. Natural food. Fruit roll ups arent made by God. Most products in the grocery store isnt food made by God. Beware of them

This week we're talking about money, specically the properties of money. 

Why? Because storing your time in bad currency is not good stewardship

Not only does storing your time in sinful currency steal your time, it makes you participate in a system of theft that doesn't please God

Saving in righteous money called bitcoin is both wise (because it protects and preserves your time) and also pleases God because it's an honest measure. 

Covering the properties of money allows you to understand what differentiates good vs bad money which is really important to reclaim finanncial sovereignty and escape sinful currency that steals from you







Chapter 4:
- Tempted/tested by the devil
- Fasting 40/40. Iraelites 40 years of testing
- "Be gone satan"
- Fasting as a means to focus on prayer



