Fellowship XII

7.16.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 38-48


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the Twelfth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is July 16, 2026 and current block height is: X

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. I'm glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it to be a valuable use of your time and maybe worth sharing with others


If you want to attend live or get in touch with me you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or send me a message on nostr

For those who have never heard of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol that isn't owned by a company and doesnt have an algorithm that hijacks our attention


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church 6:24 is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship by studying his word and by gathering in fellowship to support one another in our quest to maintain strong faith until the end


In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. That verse reminds us to serve and obey God


In this fellowship we place radical emphasis on the absolute sovereignty of God, the authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do


I missed last week due to unexpected family circumstances but am back in action

This week we are continuing through sermon on the mount covering Matthew chapter 5 verses 38-48 where Jesus speaks about conflict, specifically, about Retaliation and Loving our enemies


Every week we record 20-30 minutes of scripture and post it as a podcast

For those who attend live and wish to participate in fellowship, we do a social discussion after scripture for up to an hour

Let's begin with an opening prayer



-------> OPENING PRAYER

Eternal God and ever wise father in heaven, 

Thank you for blessing us with your presence today and for this opportunity to study yout word

Thank you for blessing our fellowship tonight and guiding me as I speak to those listening

Lord, we strive to live according to the clear instruction youve given us and we're grateful for your grace and forgiveness when we fall short

I pray that those listening to this podcast would be brought closer to you and that they would be rewarded for their faith

In Jesus mighty name

Amen


-------> Scripture

Let's get into scripture

As mentioned, we are moving through sermon on the mount, arguably the most powerful and famous sermon ever given

It was given by Jesus in front of thousands of people and the account we're reading was written by Matthew

Matthew is one of the 4 gospels in the new testament of the bible

Matthew was an outcast jew who abandoned his life as a tax collector for rome to become one of Jesus' closest students known as apostles

The 12 apostles spent time with Jesus and served as eyewitnesses to his teachings and interactions over the course of his ministry

Matthews account of sermon on the mount is an extremey detailed account. It spans 111 verses and around 2400 words

Although those 111 verses would only take you around 15 minutes to read end to end at an average reading pace, it is super dense and loaded with wisdom which is why we're moving through it very slowly


Up to this point in sermon on the mount, we've covered Kingdom character with the beatitudes where Jesus proclaims blessings on those who are

Poor in spirit, those who mourn, those who are mek, those who hunger for righteousness, those who are merciful, those who are pure in heart

Those who are peacemakers, those who are persecuted for righteousness sake and blessings to those who are persecuted falsely on Jesus' account


After Kingdom character came Kingdom identity - Christians being the salt of the earth that preserve goodness and the light that shines through darkness

After identity comes the law. Kingdom rules that govern how we behave towards God and with peers

After the law, Jesus talks about Kingdom behaviours starting with anger and lust 

Jesus then speaks about divorce and oaths which we covered in our last service

That brings us to verse 38 where Jesus now talks about conflict starting with retaliation


Let's read the word


--> I'm reading from the ESV version of the Bible. Matthew chapter 5 verses 38-42

So this is yet another example of the "you have heard it was said...but I say" template that he has repeated many times so far in this sermon

The people were told or taught something but Jesus is clarifying that teaching and going deeper to raise the bar

Jesus is expecting his audience to be aware of the law of retaliation. Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth

This law came from the justice system and was in place to ensure just punishment

In Deuteronomy 19:21 it says "It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot"

God gave us that law to prevent escalation, including excessive punishment for crimes. Humans have a tendency to do payback +1 which escalates quickly

God's rule for Israel was to limit retaliation and punishment to a fair equivalent of harm and to avoid out of control violence

If someone stole someones sheep and they then turned around and killed them and their entire family, that was not a justified response to the crime

eye for an eye was a way of saying that punishment must be an equal reflection to harm done

While Jesus isn't disputing eye for an eye in a legal context as they apply in a courtroom, he's setting a different standard for how do conduct ourselves in personal relationship to others

Jesus is saying that so far as we're able, don't return evil for evil. Decline the opportunity for revenge, even if it might be justified. Leave the revenge to God

The point about turning the other cheek is interesting and can be a tough teaching when taken literally

I find this line easier to accept if taken metaphorically for an insult

Even today, the term "slap in the face" is used in reference to insults and slights

To "turn the other cheek" implies taking that insult and accepting that another might be on the way

I don't think Jesus is telling us to literally do nothing if someone is slapping us or beating us to a pulp

Seems like he's talking to believers who will experience persecution and hate from the the world

He's saying that the proper Christian response to discrimination, mocking, or insults is to simply let it go. Don't resist the evil person. Don't relaliate. Be different. Be the light

Instead of returning an insult, choose to ignore it and by doing so, you prove that such acts are not worth a response


In verse 41 Jesus says that if anyone forces you yo go one mile, go with him two

In the days of Jesus, a Roman could ask a Jew to carry their armour and it was the law that they had to. 

The rule was one mile. Jesus is saying, go a second mile. Why? To be a light that shines so bright it makes people look twice and think twice. Do more than you have to. Shine like a light in the darkness 

If you've every heard the expression "go the extra mile", this is where it comes from

Go the extra mile is a common saying that says to doing more than is expected. To go above and beyond what is required of us

Generosity that exceeds base requirements



In these next verses, Jesus takes it a step further by asking us to turn insults upside down by returning love for hate


--> verses 42-48

Again with the you have heard it was said, But statement

You were told something but I'm here to clarify the interpretation and raise the bar if you want to follow me and be blessed by our heavenly father

Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute us

Jesus is telling us that we don't get bonus points in Gods eyes for loving people who are easy to love, We get bonus points for loving people who are difficult to Love

Jesus is asking us to practice loving people who agitate us and insult us

Don’t hold grudges against people who offend us and piss us off. Be humble and just let it go then pray for those people and love them in your heart

Love people we dislike. People who agitate us. Show them love 

Pastor Philip Anthony Mitchell frames Matthew chapter 5 as heart Training

Gods word is teaching us how to orient and shape our character with the beatitudes. 

He’s telling us our identity with salt and light. 

He's giving us rules for how to be in relationship with him and and others - the law. 

Chapter 5 is an instruction manual on how to be wise and righteous


Reflection questions:
- When is the last time you experienced conflict? Did you retaliate or just let it go
- When was the last time you went the extra mile?
- Are you holding any anger in your heart towards an enemy? Can you bring it to the Lord and Love that enemy?



That's it for scripture this week

Let's close with a prayer



-------> Closing prayer

Lord our God, king and creator of the universe

Thank you for blessing us with your word and guiding us to wisdom and understanding

I pray that we would have the strength to resist the urge to relatiate next time we experience conflict

I pray that we would release any anger or hate we have from our enemies and practice loving even those who oppress or agitate us

I pray that your gospel would conquer the minds and hearts of those we love and that those listening to this podcast would be brought closer to you in some way

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our twelfth fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

I will be back next week for our thirteenth fellowship service where we continue reading through sermon on the mount. Next week we study what Jesus says about giving to the needy and prayer

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you



--
--


