Fellowship VIII

6.11.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 5: 21-26




-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to the eighth fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is June 11, 2026 and current block height is: 953,294

I'm Nick and I have the pleasure of leading this weekly service every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. We're glad you found this podcast, and hope you find it valuable enough to share with others

If you're live with us, thanks for taking time tonight to be here



If you're interested in becoming a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, you can email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com 

You can also send us a message on NOSTR which is a social media protocol we use that isnt owned by a company, can't ban us and doesnt have an algorithm to hijack our attention


To be clear, I'm not a pastor and this is not a Church

Be The Church 6:24 is an online ministry that exists to facilitate Christian fellowship


In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. Those words are a reminder to us to to obey God



In this fellowship we place radical emphasis on the absolute sovereignty of God, the authority of the bible, and salvation by grace alone through faith alone

We believe Jesus Christ is the only mediator between us and God and that salvation is found only through our belief in him and his work on the cross, not by any human efforts we can do



As a reminder, my wife Natasha hosts a weekly Women's bible study group every Tuesday from 8-9pm ET. If you're interested in joining or have questions, email BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com



Last fellowship gathering we covered Chapter 5 verses 17-20

This week we continue through sermon on the mount. chapter 5 verses 21-26

We will be recording 20-30 minutes of scripture and then we will have our fellow social from 8:30 - 9:30

Our social discussion topics for this evening are:
- How do we deal with anger?
- How do we develop discernment?



-------> OPENING PRAYER


Dear father in heaven

Thank you for bringing us together in fellowship

We're grateful for your wisdom and guidance

I pray we would be devoted to your word and that we would be loyal servants to your will

I pray that your kingdom would gain ground here on earth. That those in the darkness of unbelief would see your light and be snatched into your kingdom

I pray that you would help me deliver this fellowship service today and that those participating would be blessed and rewarded for their faithfulness

Lord I pray that those suffering would feel ease and that the leaders of this world would serve you and protect those they have been entrusted with

I pray that we would be protected from evil and temptation

May our fellowship support us in enduring faith and may we live according to your word

In Jesus mighty name

Amen





-------> Scripture

For anyone new here, we are moving through what is perhaps the most famous sermon perhaps ever given

It's called sermon on the mount and it was delivered by Jesus

The book we are reading is Matthew. Matthew is one of 4 gospels in the new testament of the bible 

Matthew was an outcast jew and former tax collector that followed Jesus and became one of his 12 apostles

Up to this point in sermon on the mount, we've covered

Kingdom character with the beatitudes in verses 2-12

Blessed are the poor in spirit
Blessed are those who mourn
Blessed are the meek
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness
Blessed are the merciful
Blessed are the pure in heart
Blessed are the peacemakers
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness sake
Blessed are those who are persecuted falsely on Jesus' account


After kingdom character came Kingdom identity - Christians being the salt and light of the earth

After identity comes kingdom rules with the law. We covered the law last week in verses 17-20

Now we come to Kingdom behaviours starting with verses 21-26 where Jesus talks about anger


Before we read the word, let's do a short primer on anger

What is anger?

Anger is a basic and universal human emotion. Feelings of tension, hostility or displeasure towards something of someone

Anger can range in intensity from mild irritation, or annoyance to intense fury or rage

We can think of it as an emotional response to a perceived threat, provocation, frustration, injustice or violation (real or imagined)


What causes anger?

A percieved threat (to safety, resources, boundaries). Maybe disrescpect or even an attack

Frustration (a goal is block, an expectation is unment, an obstacle to something you want

Injustice like a violation of social norms

Anger can be protective but can be problematic when it isnt managed well and is expressed destructively

Healthy anger can be expressed as communiucation or unhealthy anger can be suppressed and then erupt

So, let's go through verses 21-26 and see what Jesus tells us about anger



--> Read verses 21-22

Jesus says "you have heard that it was said" 

You've been told this. Someone told you this

The But says something. You have heard that it was said....but. He's correcting the interpretation

He's not saying that what was said is wrong, he is clarifying with proper understanding of the intention of what was said

In a way, by saying "you have heard it was said...but", Jesus is saying that people have received bad teaching

You heard this but im telling you the truth. I'm going to clarify the misinterprations that have been offered to you by the scribes and pharisees

Jesus states the 6th of the ten commandments: You shall not murder

Murder is the outward behaviour of killing another individual

Not murdering others is a fairly simple and easy commandment to uphold

Then in verse 22 Jesus elevates the standard by saying that it's not enough to just not murder people

Those who murder will be liable to judgement, but in addition, everyone who is angry with his brother is also liable to judgement

Those who insult their brother will be liable to judgement

Those who call someone a fool will be liable to the hell of fire

Hell of fire is a powerful statement

Jesus is saying that God's intent behind the 6th commandment goes far deeper than not killing people

The intent applies to the deepest level of our thoughts and feelings towards other people

If you insult someone or are angry with someone, the intent is the same as murder. The action isn't the same but the intent is sinful and we should hold our intent to the same standard as our behaviours

The scribes and pharisees were teaching that unrighteous actions lead us to judgement

Jesus is saying that unrighteous attitudes and thoughts, while not the same as unrighteous actions, are as much sins as the actions

Jesus is offering a deeper, more complete understanding of God's commandments than what was tought by the religious teachers of the day

Jesus is saying that obedience to the command against murder begins with eliminating anger in our hearts for our brothers. Not just blood brother, any fellow believer, relative or someone we are close to

To be angry with someone makes us liable to God's judgement. Unrighteously or righteously

What justifies anger? A lot of things can justify anger. Justification requires discernment and honesty. 

The clarification Jesus is making here is that while God cares about our actions, he also cares about our heart. Our attitudes and thoughts

If man is created in the image of God, killing a man means killing a creation of God

Likewise, insulting or calling someone worthless is also calling God's creation worthless

Keeping a righteous heart and mind is just as important in obeying God as maintaining righteous behaviours

Once again, Jesus sets a higher standard and expectation for those who follow him


God cares about our behaviour but even more than that, he cares about the disposition of our heart

Many people can have good behaviour with wicked hearts. Not murdering anyone but being angry at the world still makes you liable to judgement

If your heart transforms, your behaviours follow

Righteous behaviour may not always mean righteous heart. However, righteous thoughts lead to righteous behaviours

Religion attempts to change people from the ouside in by focusing on their behaviours. Jesus helps people from the inside out by focusing on their hearts

Follow Jesus and he will work on your heart



--> Read verses 23-24

If you're coming to the altar with an offering and remember that there remains anger in your heart towards your brother or an unresolved conflict with your brother, leave the offering and go make good with your brother

Make good with your brother then make good with God

Reconcile with others horizontally so you can have a clear and quality relationship with the Father vertically


--> Read verses 25-26

Come to terms quickly with those whom you disagree with

Dont need to agree with them to move on without resentment or anger

Resolve conflicts between individuals to avoid the risk of going to court and being thrown in prison

Failure to reconcile can have terrible consequences. Reconcile with brothers and reconcile with God

You will never get out until you have paid the last penny sounds to me like you will never get out of the prison of anger until you release the anger and reconcile the conflicts

Remain in the prison until all of the anger has been addressed


Summary: Jesus is raising the bar. he's setting a higher standard

People we told that shall not kill but Jesus is telling them that having hatred for someone is like killing them in your heart

It's not enough to just not take a life. Don't kill people in your heart with hate

Jesus is telling us that to hate someone in our heart is a symptom of the same problem as murder which is anger

Jesus is saying not to insult people. That isn't righteous behaviour and it leads to damnation

When you have conflict with someone, do your part to make things right. Strive to reconciliation

When you hold hate in your heart, you hold yourself in your own prison and you won't get out until you release that 

it's not just about murder, it's about the condition of your heart

If you have a wicked heart filled with hate but dont murder anyone, it's not ok


That's it for scripture this week

Reflection questions for listeners:
- Are you carrying anger in your heart for others?
- Do you have any unreconciled conflicts? are you striving to resolve them so you can get out of the prison of anger?

- Things to think about and a topic we're going to talk about in our social that begins shortly


-------> Closing prayer


Almighty father in heaven

We owe you everything

Thank you for blessing this fellowship gathering with your prescence

Father, we ask that you bless us with discerning minds, righteous action and a devotion to your word

Lord we pray that we would uphold your will and that we would spread the gospel to reach those who don't yet know you

We pray for enduring faith to trust your plan for us and to submit to your will

We pray that our friends and family would be snatched into the kingdom from their unbelief and would join us as disciples of your word

In Jesus name

Amen




-------> Closing

That ends the recorded portion of our eighth fellowship service at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

If you're here live, please stay on and join us for social which begins in 30 seconds. 

Today's discussion questions are 1) How do we deal with anger?, 2) How do we develop discernment?

I will be back next week for our ninth fellowship service where we continue reading through chapter 5 and studying the profound words of Jesus spoken during his sermon on the mount

If you want to join Live and participate in our post recording social/discussion please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com and we can email you an invitation

God bless you




--
--

Let's start with Anger

Anyone have anything to share about anger? Struggles with it, insights, stories or strategies for self control when anger arises?

What makes us angry and how do we deal with it?


Discernment: The ability to perceive and judge people or situations clearly 

Combines insight with sound, wise judgement

How do we develop sound judgement? 

Discernment is of profound importance in Christianity. The ability to differentiate between positive/holy influences and negative/deceptive ones

Devotion to the word is the path to discernment. Seeking Godly counsel from the Holy Spirit

James 1:5: "If any of you lacks wisdom, you should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to you."

1 John 4:1: "Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world."

So discernment is learning to think God‘s thoughts after Him, practically and spiritually; it means having a sense of how things look in God‘s eyes and seeing them in some measure “uncovered and laid bare” (Heb. 4:13).


Again, discernment functions as a key to Christian freedom. The zealous but undiscerning Christian becomes enslaved—to others, to his own uneducated conscience, to an unbiblical pattern of life. 
Growth in discernment sets us free from such bondage, enabling us to distinguish practices that may be helpful in some circumstances from those that are mandated in all circumstances. 
But in another way, true discernment enables the free Christian to recognize that the exercise of freedom is not essential to the enjoyment of it.


Prayer: “I am your servant; give me discernment”
