Fellowship III

4.23.26 @ 8pm ET
Matthew chapter 3

Zoom: https://us06web.zoom.us/j/4371521405


-------> WELCOME (5min)

Welcome to our third fellowship service at Be The Church 624. Today is April 23, 2026 and current block height is: 946365

My name is Nick and I have the honour of leading this ministry and this weekly fellowship service held every Thursday at 8pm ET

If you're new here, Welcome. If you're here live, thanks for showing up

If youre listening to this recording, we're glad you found this podcast and hope you find it valuable

If you want to become a fellow at Be The Church 6:24, please email us at BeTheChurch624@protonmail.com or by sending us a DM on nostr 

For those unaware of NOSTR, it's a social media protocol that isn't owned or controlled by a company and integrates bitcoin micro payments

If you're curious about nostr, email us and we're happy to hemp you get on it and send you your first sats (which are a small fraction of a bitcoin)

My wife and I created this ministry to connect with fellow Christians who are also seeking to Become True Christians by aspiring toward the standard of excellence set for us by Jesus

To be clear, I am not a pastor and this is not a Church. Be The Church 624 is a global network of Christians seeking fellowship with other Christians striving to live biblically

In Matthew chapter 6 verse 24 Jesus says we cannot serve two masters. This passage is the inspiration of our ministry ID and a reminder that we should Obey God, our only true master


As a reminder to us all, I'm going to hardcode a brief mention of the 5 solas into this welcome section of fellowship

These phrases encompass the core theological convictions of reformed Christianity that distinguish it from other doctrines


--> Sola Scriptura meaning scripture alone. The bible is the sole source of faith and holds authority over church tradition

--> Sola Fide meaning faith alone. Salvation is received by faith, apart from any human works

--> Sola Gratia meaning Grace alone. Salvation is a free gift from God, entirely offered by His grace rather than human effort

--> Sola Christus meaning Christ alone. Jesus Christ is the only mediator between God and man, and salvation is found through only his work on the cross

--> Sola Deo Gloria meaning Glpry to God alone. All glory is due to God alone, salvation is accomplished solely through His will and action


Our website is officially live at BeTheChurch624.com. Still making final tweaks to refine the formatting

If you get value from this service and are not a fellow, you can help support our ministry by sharing this podcast or going to our website to donate sats

Last week we covered Mathew chapter 2

This week we continue with chapter 3

We want this fellowship service to be valuable and time well spen so they will be structured and the structure will evolve over time based on feeback from our fellows and listeners

Todays session will go like this:
- 5 minute welcome
- 2 minute opening prayer by my wife, Natasha
- 20 minutes of scripture covering Matthew chapter 3
- 10 minute behaviour discussion about fellowship
- 10 minute stewardship discussion about money, specifically the properties that distinguish good vs bad money
- 10 minute open discussion (optional)
- 2min closing prayer by Natasha

Eventually there will be a 30 minute social for Be The Church fellows after the service




-------> OPENING PRAYER (2min)

Tash


-------> Scripture

Before getting into Matthew chapter 3, let's do a quick recap of key events in chapter 2:

When Jesus was around 2 years old, wise men (Maji) followed a star to bethlehem to worship the young child and bring gifts

Joseph is warned by an angel in a dream to fleewith jesus and Mary to egypt to escape King herod who wants to kill the child

Herod kills all male children of 2 years or less in Bethlehem, hoping to kill Jesus

After Herod dies, an angel tells Joseph to return. Fearing Herods son Archelaus, the family returns to Galilee and settles in Nazareth 


As we move from Chapter 2 to 3 theres a huge jump forward in time

Matthew doesn't report anything in the life of Jesus between when Joseph settled in Nazareth to the current time where Jesus encounters John the baptist where 25-30 years have passed (not the same John who wrote the gospel of John)

John is actually the cousin of Jesus, only around 6 months apart in age

In his gospel, Luke tells the story of how John was a miracle child, born to Zecheriah and Elizabeth who were thought to be too old to have children and both descendants of the priestly line of Levites

Luke also spoke of the important role John would play in preparing the way for Jesus

Luke says that before John was born, an angel told his father about the man John would become

The angel said that John would turn many of the children of Israel to God and to make ready for the Lord a people prepared


Lets read the word starting with verse 1-6

--> READ verse 1-6

So Matthew introduces John as a preacher in the wilderness of Judea which was a dry, rough land near the dead sea

So John wasn't in a heavily populated or high traffic area. His location meant that people who wanted to listen had to come to him

John was known as the baptist or baptizer because baptizing people was a sign of their repentance from sin and that was a foundational element of John's ministry

John's first words are "repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand"

The word "repent" is Metanoeite in Greek which means "to change one's mind and heart"

More literally, it means to change direction, to stop going the wrong way and to start going in the right way. 

So repent isn't just the feeling of being sorry for one's sins, conveys an active change. 

By asking people to repent, John was calling the people of Israel to confess their sins and submit to God

Jewish people at that time would have been aware of a new kingdom that would one day come via the promised messiah

By saying the kingdom of heaven is at hand, John is expressing that the kingdom isn't a distant thing, but that its as close as your hand

John proclaims Jesus as the messiah and therefore the kingdom is iminent, not distant

He's saying with urgency that repentance for sin is needed for people to be included in the kingdom and that mere inclusion in Jewish heritage isn't sufficient

In verse 3 Matthew connects John to the prophecy in Isaiah 40:3 which says "A voice cries: In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God"

With this reference, Matthew is showing that this verse in Iasaiah relates to John the Baptist preparing the way for Jesus

John's role was to "clear the path" for Jesus by calling people to repent for their sins and turn back to the way of God. if people did that, they would be ready to follow God's son

In verse 4 Matthew talks about John wearing a garment of camel hair, a leather belt and eating locusts and wild honey. This would have been typical clothing of wild nomads

Even though John was of priestly lineage, he chose a simple life in the wilderness, wearing clothes and eating food that normal, poorer people would be wearing and eating. 

In verse 5 emphasizes that despite him being in the wilderness people travelled from Jerusalem and all around Judea to come witness John, hear his words and be baptized by him

Verse 5 repeats the word all twice. Says all Judea and all the region about the Jordan. Repeated to emphasize that many people were coming to see John, not just a few

John's message was simple and potent

The kingdom of heaven is near. The Messiah is coming. Confess and repent of your sins. Demonstrate your commitment to leading a holy life by being baptized

John's baptism was one of clensing and declaring agreement with God. It was a public declaration of a renewed commitment to live as God commanded

John's baptism of repentance which is different than the symbolism of modern day Christian baptism which in part symbolizes ones death and resurrection with Christ


--> READ verse 7-8

People coming to see John preaching in the wilderness attracted the attention of religious leaders of Israel who were known as Pharisees and Sudducees who didn't like each other

Pharisees were religious teachers and leaders connected to common people and engaged at the local synagogue level

They held themselves to strict standards when it came to adhering to the law. They also developed a system of rules that went beyond the law of Moses

The Sadducees were a much smaller group of wealthier priests and religious aristocrats. 

They were known for their cooperation with Rome's occupation and were resented by the people


They come to see what John is up to and when John sees them, he calls them a brood of vipers. Snakes. He connects them with the deceiving serpent in the garden of Eden. Strong accusation

He then asks them who told warned them to flee from God's incoming wrath

His words show that he views the religious leaders of Israel as sinful and unrepentant

He then tells them to prove by how they live that they have repented for their sins and oriented themselves to God


--> READ verses 9-10

John warns the religious leaders that Gods coming judgement will be upon them

John reminds them that just because they are children of Abraham as Israelites, it doesnt preclude them from judgement

He warns them not to presume incorrectly that they won't be judged because of who they are because judgment will be based on how they act

He says that God can raise up new children of Abrahamfrom stones if that is required

Through Jesus, new children will be added to the line of Abraham

In verse 10 John is saying that every tree that does not bear good fruit. Every person that does not behave righteously

Will feel the axe (aka judgement) of God and be cut down and thrown into fire

Those who do not bear good fruit by leading lives that are holy and faithful to God will be pruned from the tree. Deleted from the lineage. Thrown into the fire as dead branches


--> READ verses 11-12

Here John makes it clear that he is not the messiah and his baptism is not the same as the one coming after him (Jesus)

John makes reference to the divine status of Jesus by saying he isn't even worthy of carrying his sandals. In those times, only the most lowly servant would carry sandals and John says he's not even worthy to carry Jesus' sandals

He reiturates that his baptism of repentance is very different than the baptism being given by the coming Messiah which will be by the Holy Spirit and fire

John mentions that Jesus will wield a winnowing fork as a metaphor for judgement

A winnowing fork would separate the valuable wheat from the worthless chaff which would then be blown away by the wind

Those who repent and follow Christ are the wheat while the Chaff symbolizes those who reject Christ

John is saying that unbelievers will burn in unquenchable fire


--> READ 13-15

Matthew now introduces the main character, Jesus, for the first time as an adult

Jesus finds John preaching and baptizing in the wilderness and asks him to baptize him

John is suprised by the request. He doesn't even feel worthy of carrying his sandals let alone baptize Jesus

He also knew that Jesus has no sin to repent of so baptism didn't make sense for Jesus

Jesus insists that John baptizes him, saying "it is fitting for [them] to fulfill all righteousness."

Sounds like Jesus is saying "you should baptize me because it's what God wants" and then John agrees to it


--> READ 16-17

Jesus' baptism gets an immediate response from the father

As Jesus emerges from the water, the heavens open up and Jesus sees the Holy Spirit as a dove descending onto him 

This sign made for a powerful confirmation that Jesus was being empowered by God

As if it wasn't clear enough, the people who were present hear the voice of God saying "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased."

In this moment, it becomes very clear that Jesus is the son of God

In this moment, all 3 parts of the trinity are present

God the Son, in human form who is joined by God the Holy Spirit in dove-like form, while the voice of God the Father calls down from heaven.



Summary of chapter 3: 

Matthew introduces a unique character of the new testament: John the baptist

John was related to Jesus. He was Jesus' cousin, born only around 6 months apart

He was a miracle child born to Zacharias and Elizabeth, a couple that was thought to be too old to have children

John is introduced as a man preaching in the Judean wilderness, clothed in camel hair and eating honey and locusts. His purpose is to prepare the way for Jesus

John is telling people to repent for the kingdom of heaven is near. Meaning, Christ is coming and judgement is at hand. as close as our hand

John rebukes the Jewish leaders of the day for coming to be baptized without authentic repentance. He warns that those not producing good fruit will be cut down and thrown into fire

He talks about his baptism of reptenace and the incoming baptism by Jesus with either the Holy Spirit or fire

Jesus then visits John and is baptized which signifies the commmencement of his ministry

During Jesus' baptism, he receives a divine endorsement from God himself. 





-------> Behaviour: Fellowship

Ive been asking Christians for their thoughts about the 3 most important Christian behaviours

Time with God through prayer, time reading the bible to understand the word and fellowship all some up as the big 3

We've covered the first two already so today we're talking about fellowship

Seems fitting considering this is a fellowship service

Specifically, 3 questions I want to answer:

1. Why is fellowship important?
2. How do we achieve fellowship?
3. What is fellowship?


In Hebrews 10:24-25 the author says

"And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the Day drawing near.

The author is telling us to meet tohether and stir each other up to Love each other, do good works and enrouage each other until the end

Proverbs 27:17 says 

Iron sharpens Iron. Being a true Christian in a sinful world requires us to be spiritual warriors. Praying together and studying the word together is how we sharpen each other so we can be well trained for battle against the enemy


In Galatians 6:2 Paul says to bear each others burdens. Help each other cope with and move through struggles and burdens. Rely on each other 



Start with the idea of vertical fellowship and horizontal fellowship

Vertical fellowship is with God

Horizontal fellowship is with fellow Christians and also with non Christians



Fellowship with Christians allows us to support and be supported by other believers in our quest for living Biblically. Not an easy endeavour in a sinful world

Fellowship with non Christians is our outlet to spread the gospel and help others come to Jesus and live righteously

The only thing we can bring to heaven is other people. Heard this and it hit me hard


Something worth noting is that fellowship is deeper than just social interaction, it's a deep spiritual partnership consisting of sharing and joint participation

Sharing meals. Sharing time. Sharing resources. Sharing life stories. Sharing struggles

Sharing in life means involving others in our lived experience and being part of the experience of others. Being present and available to serve when needed

This fellowship service offers spiritual accountability. Becoming a fellow means comitting to being here every week for an hour and building meaningful connections with other fellows

The Greek word for fellowship is Koinonia meaning communion, joint participation, partnership and intimacy

Shared life is a bond that unites Christians with one another and with Jesus Christ

Felowship isn't passive. It's active. It involves doing things together actively to forward the kingdom

Prayer and encouragement

Participation within a community

Our hope is that while we all have a home church where we worship, a digital fellowship can endure and become a source of community even when we move physical locations and find a different church

Enduring fellowship

Christian fellowship offers us connection and relationship between Christians that cannot be had with non Christians. 

Come together in fellowship to teach each other things. Teach things about health, money, communicating the gospel, ways of living etc

Fellowship is a means of perseverance to maintain faith until then end. Fellowship offers social support to grow our faith and expand our capacity to communicate and spread the gospel

A weekly bible study practice to deepen our understanding of scripture

Experiencing life together and building each other up


1. Why is fellowship important? Because it's important to build high quality relationships that encourage us to be faithful even during challenges. Its imporant to bring the gospel to unvelievers to save their souls
2. How do we achieve fellowship? Consostently and intentionally gathering in prayer, bible study and sharing our experiences in aspiring to righteous living
3. What is fellowship? Shares participation in the life of Jesus and in each others lives




-------> Stewardship: Properties of money

Last week in stewardship we covered the health topic of food. 

The summary of that is eat what God made and give thanks for the food when you consume it. Fruit roll ups are not made by God. 

If it walks around, swims or grows out of soil, God made it for us as food. Beware of eating products made by man that are called food. Many are poisons. Counterfeit foods


This week we’re covering money and the topic is properties of money. 

Discernment of good vs bad money is important for wise stewardship of your time

Sounds boring and it’s very simple but also super important

Important, because if you don’t understand the properties of money, you might unintentionally and unknowingly saving your time (that’s what money is) in a currency that steals from you and others. 

A sinful system of theft at a mass scale through counterfeiting known as inflation.

Proverbs 11:1 says that a false balance is an abomination to the Lord but a just weight is his delight.

The Lord delights in honest measures. Money is a measure. Fiat is dishonest currency, a form of money. Bitcoin is honest money and can also be used as currency


7 properties of Money


Scarcity - Fiat bad, gold better because it only inflates around 2% per year right now, Bitcoin best because it has a fixed supply 
Portability - bring it with you
Acceptability - ability to spend it. Fiat good
Divisibilty - divide and aggregate. Gold bad
Uniformity/ fungibility - are units interchangeable?
Durability - does it resist decay?. Apples
Securability - How easily can you protect it?

Use fiat, gold and bitcoin as examples 

Theft is wrong
Counterfeiting is theft
Inflation is counterfeiting

Inflation of a currency by a select few is immoral and fraudulent. Inflation is stealing and God said we should not steal

Stealing is a sin


-------> CLOSING PRAYER (2min)


Tash



-------> CLOSING

That ends our third fellowship gathering at Be The Church 6:24

Thank you for being here and listening

if you want to join as a fellow or have questions, please email BtTheChurch624@protonmail.com

God bless you




